---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/enter-the-garden/"}
---

A certain level of anxiety and rigidness can be useful in helping us to navigate our environment intelligently. We need to pay attention and sometimes move slowly so that we can be discerning. For anyone with eyes to see, it’s clear things have gotten out of hand. Our new normal has shifted to dysfunction, not that a close look into the past wouldn't find similar themes. Illnesses, both mental and physical, have ever been increasing due to our collective lifestyles - despite tremendous advances in health care and technology. Our current approach is not working, and is oftentimes even damaging. The way our culture has been set up holds the capacity to influence us in tremendously harmful ways, and it only seems to be getting worse. Amongst the chaotic and wild winds, it is crucial that we protect ourselves so as to not fly away. We may have to use every stake available to nail our tent into the ground and root ourselves firmly to the Earth. It is important to realize the fact that we hold the capacity to become stuck in our defenses and without our awareness, unconsciously caught in the tumultuous emotions of our time. When winds subside and the sun begins to gleam through the grey clouds, are we able to move on from the memories of roaring thunder drowning out the sound of our voice, raging winds destabilizing us and our belongings, and the incessant downpour pelting us as we tried to navigate it all? 

The surest foot, one which has walked the path for years, can stumble upon on a hidden stone. The most powerful engine can overheat under extreme strain. Jesus, whatever your belief around that subject may be, seemed to be well equipped at flipping tables. From having to adapt to this need for standing guard before the minds eye, amplified by our developments in technology, to defend and keep watch for some of the drivel "brain-rot" being sold to us as the new way forward, our backs may begin to buckle as we fold under the heaviness this mental armor we are forced to equip holds. At times it is important and honorable to confront and call out reprehensible behavior, to care for ourselves and others in fierce, direct and powerful ways. To enact forceful boundaries, say no loudly and clearly, assert our needs, engage in conflict, and to make use of the energies of aggression. However, if we aren’t careful, we may find ourselves transfixed by the abyss, only to realize that it has been staring back into us, as Nietzsche had warned. The result - backlash from the damaging effects of toxic thoughts and stress, a society with record levels of anxiety and depression, and a populace growing in its vulnerability to disease. 


This exploration, "The Inner Garden," is not a new path, but a rediscovery of an ancient one. This garden, this inner sanctuary, is not a place of escape, but rather a source of strength, a wellspring from which we draw the courage to face the world with open eyes and a steady heart. It is here, in the quiet tending of our inner landscape, that we rediscover the enduring power of peace, and come to observe the profound divinity which exists at the deepest core of our being.

We are not creating a separation of inner and outer worlds, but instead are pointing to a recognition of their profound interconnectedness. 
It is from this inner ground that we draw the strength to shape our outer reality, to bring forth beauty and meaning from the chaos.
It is from this inner world that we continue onward, this is what we keep with us. 
