---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/take-a-seat/"}
---


When we began to go around the room and share about our "inner garden," it was a repeated theme that many of the older gentlemen were never taught anything about tending to, much less looking at, their inner worlds during developmental years. We sat there for a moment with the honest truth that things hadn't always necessarily been all rainbows and sunshine. From a lack of education and emphasized importance on this aspect of life, perhaps even mockery amongst certain "masculine" circles, to the inevitable wake up call which asks for one to pay attention to what's going on internally - it's a journey that you don't even realize is asking to be had until life forces you to take it. For the men that had developed a tinge of mastery in this art of internal self acknowledgement, they were very clear about how life changing and different it was from the ways they were taught to approach life growing up. Thinking this external playing field was all that there was to go and master, we’ve neglected the fact that this has always been the lesser battle. We won't get into it here, but the work of 2022 Physics Nobel Prize winners demonstrated that our Universe isn't even locally real. Donald Hoffman lays out a fairly convincing scientifically based explanation that argues the physical world we are used to interfacing with is illusory in its nature as-well. We are living in the world of _māyā_(_mā_ "not" and _yā_ "this"), defined in Vedic texts as "a magic show, an illusion where things appear to be present but are not what they seem." The idea that this external world is an illusion was greeted by nineteenth century European thinkers as proof of India’s inability to cope with the practical world, but as we move further into the high tech era, the theories for our world being some sort of simulation seem to have only grown and found more evidence. The inner garden, our consciousness, is perhaps one of the few things that we can know for certain as real. When looking through this lens, tending to our inner-garden's needs could be seen as a sacred duty. It is the most important work that we could do. Every ounce of effort towards this venture is more than exponentially worth its weight in gold. 

[[Enter The Garden\|Enter The Garden]]